4.2 Annual events organized by SLIATE
Organizing any event in an ATI requires approval from Director 
General. Approval can be obtained from Director General by 
submitting a document at least one month before the event, which 
should highlight the objective, outcome, etc. of the event with the 
recommendation of the Head of the Department / Director or Academic
Coordinator.
 English Day 
 Sports Day
 Software Competition 
 Tourism Day
 Cultural Day or any other events
Student Handbook of SLIATE
22
5. Examinations
These examinations consist of components of semester examinations 
and continuous assessments. Semester-end examinations will be held 
for both full-time and part-time students during weekdays and 
weekends.
5.1 Applying for the Examinations (Eligibility to apply for the 
Examinations)
a. To apply for the Examination each student should 
completed following conditions.
i) Registration for the relevant course in relevant semester.
ii) Completing of the conditions decided by the Institute.
iii) Participation of more than 70% of attendance of lectures 
practical/ tutorials for each and every subject in the 
relevant Academic Year. Academic Board of the 
respective ATI has the power to reduce the attendance 
% based on special circumstances, minimum up to 40%.
iv) Completing of academic requirement/ programme 
requirement such as practical, mid exams, phase test and 
assignments etc.
v) He/She not be a student who was prohibited to appear 
for examinations.
vi) He/She should not appear for more than 4 consecutive 
attempts of the same examination or parts of the same 
examination. Even though the student does not apply for 
the exam, the attempt will be counted.
vii) He/She should be a person who has fulfilled the formal 
requirements declared by the SLIATE.
b. Those who have been fulfilled the above requirements are 
becoming eligible to apply for the examination.
Student Handbook of SLIATE
23
5.2 Forwarding Applications
Those who are eligible for examinations should forward their 
written applications for examination to the Director/ Coordinator 
of the of the relevant ATI 
(For this matter application should be prepared according to the 
sample application form published by the SLIATE or student 
should apply through the online system, if it is decided by the 
SLIATE).
5.3 Accepting Applications
To accept the forwarded applications following conditions should 
be fulfilled.
i) The eligibility of the subject should be recommended by the 
subject lecturer.
ii) The eligibility of the candidate for the academic year should be 
recommended by the Head of the Department.
iii) After the recommendation of the Head of the Department, 
Director/ Coordinator of the Institute should be recommended 
and summarized the applications and directed to the 
examination and evaluation unit of SLIATE.
iv) This condition is not subjected to the Institution of which the 
examinations are handled independently by itself. The total 
above mention responsibility is vested with the Director of the 
ATI.
5.4 Confirmation of the eligibility for the Examination
After receiving the summarized list of applications the eligibility 
for the examination is confirmed by issuing the admission cards 
and Examination Index Number for each and every candidate of 
the examination.
Examination Index number and Admission Card shall be issued by 
the Director/ Academic Coordinator of relevant ATI according to 
the advice given by the Examination Unit of SLIATE.
Student Handbook of SLIATE
24
5.5 Criteria on the conduct of Examinations
Applications are called for semester end examinations online or/and 
manually through relevant departments of ATI. Applying for 
examinations is compulsory. The examination index number is same as 
the registration number. 
5.6 Procedures in examination halls Information for students
5.6.1. It is the responsibility of each student to acquaint 
himself/herself with the regulations concerning each 
examination, including the timetable of examinations and 
the location there of.
5.6.2. Each candidate must bring the Admission Card, attesting 
his/her signature by a person mentioned in it.
5.6.3. On arrival at the Examination Hall, students should check 