3.1.2 The Mahapola Scholarship 
The awarding of the Mahapola scholarship is handled by the Lalith 
Athlathmudali Mahapola Higher Education Scholarship Trust Fund 
(LAMHESTF), Ministry of Trade and Consumer Affairs. Payment 
registers for the Mahapola scholarship are prepared by SLIATE.
Payment of balance installments, stoppage of installments, restitution of 
installments and other related matters are to be decided by the 
LAMHESTF.
The Mahapola scholarship payment will be offered only to the fulltime 
students registered to follow Diploma courses. Only nine (09) 
installments will be paid for an academic year, and the students who do 
not collect three (03) installments at a stretch will have their 
installments discontinued.
In order to be eligible for the Mahapola scholarship, the following 
conditions should be fulfilled.
a. The scholarship recipient will receive the monthly installments on 
the recommendation of SLIATE depending on the progress of the 
academic activities.
b. A maximum of 09 installments for an academic year will be paid 
for the duration of the course.
c. In order to be eligible for the receipt of installments, students 
should be engaged in fulltime courses and those who do not 
attend courses will not be eligible to receive monthly installments.
d. If a student fails to obtain an installment, it will be considered as 
an installment that has been abandoned and such installments will 
not be paid again. 
e. After accepting the scholarship, it is not permitted to change the 
course or apply for any other scholarships.
f. If a scholarship recipient changes the course, or ceases to follow 
Student Handbook of SLIATE
13
the course or gains employment, His / her scholarship will be 
canceled.
g. Deferment of a course requires prior permission from the 
authority concerned. Permission will be granted for a maximum of
one-year postponement.
h. It is necessary to attend lectures, tutorials and practical sessions 
and if not, the payment of installments will be stopped and action 
will be taken accordingly.
i. Increase of income as a result of getting employment or engaging 
in business will also result in the discontinuation of the 
payment of installments.
j. To obtain the Mahapola scholarship payment, eligible students 
must open a savings account at a licensed commercial bank and 
need to inform the Accountant of the relevant Institute.
k. The final decision on scholarships and payment of installments 
rests are with the Lalith Athlathmudali Mahapola Higher
Education Scholarship Trust Fund.
3.1.3 Concession for season tickets (Bus & Train)
This facility is offered by the institute only to the non-hostel residential 
full time students. The Institute pays 35% of the value of the season 
ticket of the student to the Sri Lanka Transport Board/Railway 
Department. 
3.1.4 Canteens at concessionary rates
The canteens are available in certain ATIs to provide food at 
concessionary rates. Ex. Ampara, Badulla, Colombo, Dehiwala, 
Gampaha and Kandy Institutes.
Student Handbook of SLIATE
14
3.2 Student services
3.2.1 Student counseling
Members of the academic staff have been appointed to Counsel the 
students on day-to-day problems. The students can meet the counselors 
during the allocated hours for the counseling. The details of counselors 
will be displayed by the Institutes.
3.2.2 Career guidance unit
The lecturers who are trained for Career Guidance will be appointed as 
Career Guidance officers. Training Coordinator may be the in-charge of 
this unit. The function of this unit will be based on the common action 
plan prepared by the Head Office.
The following services are provided by this unit:
a. To advise and provide the students with information on their
careers.
b. To introduce the students to the environment of industries and 
prepare them to face the challenges therein by organizing and 
conducting training sessions and workshops.
c. Two special courses will be conducted for personality and the 
development of healthy attitudes for all students to achieve the 
above aims.
d. To assist students in directing them for fruitful business or
industry.
e. To increase the employability of the students and develop 
opportunities for training programmes for them.
f. To establish means for letting students have knowledge about 
Employers’ expectations and requirements
g. To actively participate in building mutual understanding between 
Student Handbook of SLIATE
15
the students and industry, especially the private sector.
h. To develop industrial action committee with private and 
government sector industrial representatives.
3.2.3 Library
The Library is the knowledge hub of the institute that supports 
pillars of the Institute; the teaching, learning and research. The 
librarian is the In-Charge Officer of the library. The Library 
conducts orientation programs for all new students on the usage 
of resources at the library.
Library opening hours
Normal Hours During Examination 
period
Week days 8.30a.m - 4.00 p.m 8.30a.m – 6.00 p.m
Weekends 8.30a.m - 4.00 p.m 8.30a.m – 6.00 p.m
Depending on the situational requirements, the opening hours of 
the library may change with prior notification.
Categorization
For collection and organizing purposes, books are categorized as 
follows
Permanent Reference – Not allowed for borrowing
Scheduled Reference – overnight reference
Lending: Book/s can be borrowed for a maximum period of two 
weeks. (The period can be limited on the availability of 
particular book in the library)
Student Handbook of SLIATE
16
Library registration and issuing of library cards
All registered students of the Institute are entitled to get the 
membership of the library by submitting a filled application to the 
counter together with the identity card or record book issued by
the Institute.
The library membership fee is Rs. 500.00 and it will be refunded 
after completion of the academic programme and upon settlement 
of all library dues. The cardholder is responsible for any book
borrowed for his/her library card. 
External researchers are allowed to refer library materials with 
the special permission of the Director General/Director. External 
researchers need to get temporary membership by depositing Rs. 
5000.00 refundable deposit and a book is issued for 14 days.
Lending of library books
Books to be borrowed should be given to the officer at the 
counter along with the library card and student identity card. The 
due date is stamped on the date slip of the book and those books 
are subjected to the inspection of security staff before being taken 
out of the library. Books borrowed should be returned to the 
relevant counter on or before the due date.
Lending periods - maximum 02 weeks Scheduled Reference –
maximum 01 day:
(Scheduled Reference books should be returned before 10.00 a.m. 
on the following day).
Fines on overdue books
Fines will be charged for books 
which are on overdue. Lending 
books Rs: 15.00 per day Scheduled 
reference books Rs: 20.00 per day
Student Handbook of SLIATE
17
Loss of library books
Any loss of a borrowed book should be informed to the library 
immediately by filling the relevant form kept at the counter. If 
the book is not found, it should be replaced by a copy of the 
same book or the value of the book with 25% office charge
should be paid to the library. An additional fine decided by the 
Library Committee will be imposed for lost books.
Check on the state of borrowing materials
The library user should be observant of any damage to the library 
materials prior to borrowing. Missing or torn pages and 
scribbling on pages should be informed to the issuing counter 
immediately. If such damage is noticed at the returning of the 
materials to the library, the person who has borrowed the 
materials will have to bare the replacement cost.
Damage and theft of library material
Any damage to library materials such as scribbling, disfiguring, 
tearing of pages, mishandling, and removing of library materials 
or part of materials without proper authorization is a punishable 
offence. Disciplinary action will be taken as punishments to such
offences.
Loss of library cards